CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to py_nist_beacon

:+1::tada: First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! :tada::+1:

#### Table Of Contents

[What should I know before I get started?](#what-should-i-know-before-i-get-started)
  * [Configuring Your Environment](#configuring-your-environment)

[How Can I Contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
  * [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
  
## What should I know before I get started?

You should become familiar with the following:

- [Python 3](https://docs.python.org/3/)
- The famous [virtualenvwrapper](https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)
- NIST Randomness Beacon Documentation:
  - [NIST Randomness Beacon Homepage](http://www.nist.gov/itl/csd/ct/nist_beacon.cfm)
  - [NIST Randomness Beacon API Overview](https://beacon.nist.gov/home)
  - [NIST Randomness Beacon API XSD](https://beacon.nist.gov/record/0.1/beacon-0.1.0.xsd)

### Configuring Your Environment

:heavy_exclamation_mark: **Important Note!** You will need an internet connection to
execute the full test suite.

Setting up your local environment can be a tough with some projects. This project aims
to have a simple and quick environment setup process. You should already have configured
a local `virtualenv` with `python 3` as the interpreter. Once you have your local `virtualenv`
ready to go, simply install the full dev tool package using `pip`:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

If you would like to verify your local environment, you can try testing the project with:

```bash
make
```

Which will run the same testing steps that [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/urda/py_nist_beacon)
will run. You can also just run `make test` if you would like to just run the python tests.

## How Can I Contribute?

### Reporting Bugs

Coming soon!

Commit message:

Add a note about pycrypto install woes

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to py_nist_beacon

:+1::tada: First off, thanks for taking the time to contribute! :tada::+1:

#### Table Of Contents

[What should I know before I get started?](#what-should-i-know-before-i-get-started)
  * [Configuring Your Environment](#configuring-your-environment)

[How Can I Contribute?](#how-can-i-contribute)
  * [Reporting Bugs](#reporting-bugs)
  
## What should I know before I get started?

You should become familiar with the following:

- [Python 3](https://docs.python.org/3/)
- The famous [virtualenvwrapper](https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.org/en/latest/)
- NIST Randomness Beacon Documentation:
  - [NIST Randomness Beacon Homepage](http://www.nist.gov/itl/csd/ct/nist_beacon.cfm)
  - [NIST Randomness Beacon API Overview](https://beacon.nist.gov/home)
  - [NIST Randomness Beacon API XSD](https://beacon.nist.gov/record/0.1/beacon-0.1.0.xsd)

### Configuring Your Environment

:heavy_exclamation_mark: **Important Note!** You will need an internet connection to
execute the full test suite.

Setting up your local environment can be a tough with some projects. This project aims
to have a simple and quick environment setup process.

You should already have configured a local `virtualenv` with `python 3` as the interpreter.
Once you have your local `virtualenv` ready to go, simply install the full dev tool package using `pip`:

```bash
pip install -r requirements-dev.txt
```

If you have have problems installing `pycrypto`, you may need `python3-dev` or a similar library on your
machine. For Ubuntu and other linux systems `apt-get install python3-dev` will usually set you straight.
Once you have it installed try running your `pip install` command again. **If this still does not work**
please add a note in this [GitHub Issue](https://github.com/urda/py_nist_beacon/issues/4) and then open
a new issue!

If you would like to verify your local environment, you can try testing the project with:

```bash
make
```

Which will run the same testing steps that [Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/urda/py_nist_beacon)
will run. You can also just run `make test` if you would like to just run the python tests.

## How Can I Contribute?

### Reporting Bugs

Coming soon!
